# Miniproject
Integration of SuperCapacitor to battery in  hybrid electric vehicles
This project describes about the designing a multi-sourced energy supply with bidirectional and DC-DC converter that efficiently combines or integrates battery and supercapacitor in electric hybrid vehicles. With the increase in demand for clean and efficient transportation, Hybrid electric vehicles emerged as an excellent solution. Although Hybrid electric vehicles have many advantages such as helping in maintaining a cleaner environment, reduced fuel consumption, it has certain flaws such as limited energy storage, degradation of battery life due to frequent charging and discharging process, not suitable for long distance travel purposes. In order to overcome these drawbacks a supercapacitor is integrated with the battery of the hybrid electric vehicles. The purpose of attaching supercapacitor is that supercapacitor has high power density while the battery has high energy density. Supercapacitors have impressive characteristics like high power density and fast charge/discharge capabilities, but they cannot function effectively as the sole energy storage system. Supercapacitors are great for providing quick bursts of power their low energy density and short energy storage duration make them unsuitable. The steady state power requirement will be taken care by battery while the transient power requirement will be taken care by supercapacitor. Thus, effectively working together as a good combination. The primary objective is to improve battery life span, increase the overall state of charge for the system and to reduce the stress on battery during peak power demands such as heavy acceleration during uphill climbing. This efficient design allows power sharing between battery and supercapacitor. The DC-DC prioritize energy flow the supercapacitor during high power peak demands Thereby reducing the stress on the battery. First, Solar energy is fed as an input to the photo voltaic panels. The function of photo voltaic panels is to convert the solar energy into usable form of energy. Then the DC power generated by Photovoltaic panels is then fed as an input to the Maximum Power Point Tracking. The job of maximum power point tracking is to adjust the operating voltage and current of the photo voltaic panel based on the perturb and observe algorithm and to obtain the maximum power point. Battery which serves as an energy storage and takes care of steady state load requirement and is integrated with supercapacitor. In our project, Renewable energy is chosen as solar which is fed as an input to the PV panel through temperature and solar irradiation constant blocks. Then it is fed to the MPPT Panel which works on the algorithm of perturb and observe method to get the Maximum power point. Then the output from this is fed to the boost converter which steps up the voltage. The output from the boost is allowed to flow through the bidirectional converters which charges the battery and supercapacitor. Whenever there is excess energy generated or excess energy flow comes from the photo voltaic panel, Battery and supercapacitor are charged and Photo voltaic panel energy is used to drive the motor. This is the charging process of hybrid electric vehicles. During discharging process (or) When there is an increase in peak power demand, Battery and supercapacitor supply together. Supercapacitor discharges first to take care of peak power demand and the battery plays the role of maintaining steady state (or) providing constant power to the required load. There is observable increase in state of charge when the battery and supercapacitor work together in hybrid electric vehicles. Thus, the overall hybrid combination serves as excellent solution to overcome the limitations of electric hybrid vehicles making it suitable for the future generations. 
